        
                           
                         EAGLE MOUNTAIN         
                         CITY COUNCIL      MEETING    MINUTES     
                          
                         JANUARY 20  , 2026  4:00 PM  
                         EAGLE MOUNTAIN CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS     
                         1650 E STAGECOACH RUN, EAGLE MOUNTAIN, UT 84005    
 
ELECTED OFFICIALS PRESENT:     Mayor  Jared R. Gray ; Councilmembers  Craig Whiting , 
Melissa Clark, Rich Wood , Brett Wright  and Zachory Huish . 
 
CITY STAFF PRESENT: Benjamin Reeves, City Manager; Fionnuala Kofoed, Assistant City 
Manager; Carson Stapley, Information Systems Manager; John Magness, Legislative and 
Policy Analyst; Evan Berrett, Economic Development Director;   Marcus Draper, City 
Attorney; Lacie Messerly , Interim City Recorder; Stephanie Allred, Deputy Recorder; Penny 
Vigil, Deputy Recorder; Kimberly Ruesch, Director of Administrative Services;  Natalie 
Winterton, Assistant to the City Manager ; Brandon Larsen, Planning Director; Steven 
Lehmitz, Planner ; Mack Straw, Assistant Public Works Director; Vince Hogge, City Engineer; 
Jeff Weber, Fleet and Facilities/Operations Director; Zac Hilton, Assistant Public Works 
Director; Brad Hickman, Public Works Director; David Salazar, Assistant City Engineer; David 
Ulibarri, Public Safety Director; Embret Fossum, UFA Battalion Chie f and Erik Knutzen , Chief 
Deputy  Sheriff . 
 
CITY STAFF PRESENT ELECTRONICALLY:     Michele Graves, Library Director . 
 
4:00 PM WORK SESSION    – CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS     
 
Mayor Gray called the meeting to order at 4 :02  PM.  
 
1. DISCUSSION AND INFORMATION ITEMS       
 
      1.A.  DISCUSSION  -  Justice Court -  Jim Peters  
             
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 00:00: 59 . 
 
Justice Court Administrator  Jim Peters provided a detailed presentation to the City Council 
regarding options for the potential addition of a Justice Court in Eagle Mountain. Mr. Peters 
reviewed statutory requirements, administrative oversight, and operating standards 
applicable to each option under consideration. Mr. Peters also responded to questions from 
Council regarding operational feasibility, anticipated caseload and financial implications.  
 
      1.B.  PRESENTATION   -  Energy Project for Meta in Coordination with Williams -  
            Senior Project Manager Andrew Johns  

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                 Page1  of 11 
 
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 00: 29 :54 . 
 
Jimmie Hammontree, Director of State Government and Regulatory Affairs at Williams, 
presented an overview of Project Aquila, a behind - the - meter generation project proposed 
in Eagle Mountain to support the expansion of an existing digital infrastructure fac ility within 
the Regional Technology and Industry (RTI) Overlay Zone. He highlighted anticipated 
project benefits and discussed key project considerations, including noise, wall heights, 
setbacks, and aesthetics.  
 
Economic Development   Director  Abby Ivory provided background information on the 
project and explained the basis for the item’s recommendation to the City Council.  
 
      1.C . DISCUSSION  -  Street Renaming and Addressing Code Amendment   -  Planner 
            David Stroud  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 00: 53 :40 . 
 
Planner David Stroud explained that a citizen inquired about the possibility of renaming a 
street and that the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code does not contain standards or 
procedures for such requests. He noted that street renaming is uncommon and typically  
occurs in larger cities to recognize historically or culturally significant individuals.  
 
Mr. Stroud requested direction from the City Council regarding potential procedures, 
criteria, and timeframes should the City choose to address future street renaming requests.  
       
2. AGENDA REVIEW     
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 1:05 :17. 
 
      13.A. ORDINANCE / PUBLIC HEARING    -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, Utah, 
            Amending the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Section 17.80.080 regarding 
            directional signage related to data center/large - scale development projects.   
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 1:06:29 . 
 
Planner  Steven Lehmitz  proposed a code amendment to Eagle Mountain Municipal Code 
Section 17.80.080 to allow and establish standards for off - premises directional signage 
associated  with  data center  and large - scale development projects.  C ity Council  requested 
that the proposed amendment include standards for signage design, location of sign 
placement, and a timeline for removal of the signage following project completion.  
 

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page2  of 11 
 
      13.B. ORDINANCE / PUBLIC HEARING    -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, Utah, 
            Amending the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Sections 15.80, 17.10, 17.25, 
            17.100 regarding Slope Development.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 1:14:39 . 
 
Senior Planner Robert Hobbs presented a proposed  code amendment to Eagle Mountain 
Code Sections 15.80, 17.10, 17.25, 17.100 which would  add a definition, reformat  the sections , 
and specify tha t propert ies with  slope s exceed ing  25% shall  not be graded or altered.  C ity 
Council  provided feedback and direction regarding the proposed code amendment.  
 
      13.C. ORDINANCE   -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, Utah, Repealing and 
            Replacing Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Section 2.10 regarding Power and 
            Duties of Mayor.  
 
      13.D. ORDINANCE   -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, Utah, Repealing and 
            Replacing Various Provisions of Title 2 of the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code 
            Related to City Governance.  
 
City Council determined that items 13.C. and 14.D. would be discussed during the Policy 
Session to provide community members with the opportunity to observe the discussion and 
offer public comments.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 1:31:00.  
 
3. ADJOURN TO A CLOSED SESSION       
 
MOTION:        Councilmember  Clark  moved to adjourn to a Closed Session for the purpose of 
               discussion of pending or reasonably imminent litigation; the character, 
               professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual; the 
               purchase, lease, sale, or exchange of real property; a proposed development 
               agreement, projec t proposal, or financing proposal related to the development of 
               land owned by the state or a political subdivision; and/or the deployment of 
               security personnel, devices, or systems, pursuant to Section 52 - 4- 205(1) of the 
               Utah Code, Annotated . Councilmember  Whiting  seconded the motion.  
                           Melissa Clark  Yes        
                           Craig Whiting  Yes        
                           Rich Wood      Yes        
                           Brett Wright   Yes        
                           Zachory Huish  Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous vote.  
 
The Work Session was adjourned at 5:42  PM. 

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page3  of 11 
 
The recording of the motion  can be found online here at 0 1:39 :44 . 
 
7:00 PM POLICY SESSION  – CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS     
 
4. CALL TO ORDER    
 
Mayor Gray  called the meeting to order at 7: 05  PM. 
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 1:41:32 . 
 
5. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE     
 
Charlotte Ducos  led the Pledge of Allegiance.  
 
6. INFORMATION IT  EMS/UPCOMING EVENTS      
 
7. INTRODUCTION/ RECOGNITION      
 
      7.A.  INTRODUCTION / RECOGNITION    -  Utah County Sheriff's Office  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 1:43 :29 . 
 
Chief Deputy Sheriff Erik Knutzen introduced Deputy Breunig and recognized her for life -
saving efforts  during three separate incidents. Chief Deputy  Sheriff Knutzen also 
recognized Lieutenant BJ Eckles for his 18 years of service in Eagle Mountain. Lieutenant 
Eckles expressed appreciation for his time serving the community and thanked the citizens, 
City staff, and City Council for their support.  
 
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS     
 
Mayor Gray  opened the public comment period at 7: 26 PM. 
 
The following individuals spoke during the Public Comment period :  
 
   •  Jill Jones  -  Requested that street signs be more descriptive, additional lighting be 
      added to the divider of Pony Express, and a small community pool be considered 
      near the new City Hall.   
   •  Tiffany Walde n -  S poke regarding taxpayer accountability.  
   •  Anthony Castillo  -  Addressed concerns about elected officials blocking citizens on 
      social media.     
 


 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page4  of 11 
 
MOTION:     Councilmember  Clark moved to  table Public Comment to later in the meeting 
            Councilmember  Whiting seconded the motion.  
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote . 
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 2:0 1:24 . 
 
9. CITY COUNCIL/MAYOR ITEMS     
     
The Mayor and Councilmembers offered comments to the public.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 2:13:21. 
 
CONSENT AGENDA     
 
10 . BOND RELEASES   
 
      10 .A. Scarlet Ridge Phase A, Plat 2 -  Into Warranty  
 
      10 .B. Sunset Flats Phase A, Plat 3 -  Into Warranty  
 
10 . CHANGE ORDERS   
 
11. MINUTES  
 
      12.A. January 7, 2025 Minutes -  Regular City Council Meeting  
 
      12.B. February 4, 2025 Minutes -  Regular City Council Meeting  
 
      12.C . January 6, 2026  Minutes -  Regular City Council Meeting  
 
MOTION:        Councilmember  Clark  moved to approve the Consent Agenda     with a 
               correction of a spelling error in the  January 6, 2026 , City Council Meeting  
               Minutes . Councilmember Wright  seconded the motion.  
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page5  of 11 
 
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 2:17:26 . 
 
S CHEDULED ITEMS   
    
13. ORDINANCES   / PUBLIC HEARINGS   
 
      13.A. ORDINANCE / PUBLIC HEARING    -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, 
            Utah, Amending the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Section 17.80.080 
            regarding directional signage related to data center/large - scale development 
            projects.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 2:18:06. 
 
Planner Steven Lehmitz presented a proposed code amendment to Eagle Mountain 
Municipal Code Section 17.80.080, to allow and establish standards for off - premises 
directional signage associated with data center and large - scale development projects.  Mr. 
Lehmitz highlighted the revisions to the proposed code amendment that were requested 
by City Council during the prior Work Session.  
 
Mayor Gray  opened the Public Hearing period at 7: 45  PM. Seeing no one wished to speak 
Mayor Gray closed the Public Hearing at 7: 45  PM. 
 
The recording of the public hearing  can be found online here at 0 2:25 :15. 
 
MOTION:           Councilmember  Wood  moved to adopt an Ordinance of Eagle Mountain 
                  City, Utah, Amending the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Section 
                  17.80.080 regarding directional signage related to data center/large -
                  scale development projects    with updated edits as presented    . 
                  Councilmember  Whiting  seconded the motion.  
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote . 
 
The recording of the motion  can be found online here at 0 2:22:30 . 
 


 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page6  of 11 
 
      13.B. ORDINANCE / PUBLIC HEARING    -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, 
            Utah, Amending the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Sections 15.80, 17.10, 
            17.25, 17.100 regarding Slope Development.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 2:23 :14. 
 
Senior Planner  Robert Hobbs presented a proposed code amendment to Eagle Mountain 
Code Sections 15.80, 17.10, 17.25, 17.100 which would add a definition, reformat the 
sections and specify that any property whose slope exceeds 25% shall not be graded or 
altered.  During a prior Work Session , City Council directed staff to further refine the 
proposal and return it for consideration at a future meeting.  
 
Mayor Gray opened the Public Hearing period at 7: 48  PM. Seeing no one wished to speak 
Mayor Gray closed the Public Hearing at 7: 48  PM. 
 
The recording of the public hearing  can be found online here at 0 2:25 :15. 
 
MOTION:           Councilmember  Wood  moved to table  an Ordinance of Eagle Mountain 
                  City, Utah, Amending the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Sections 
                  15.80, 17.10, 17.25, 17.100 regarding Slope Development . Councilmember 
                  Clark  seconded the motion.  
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote . 
 
The recording of the motion  can be found online here at 0 2:25 :49 . 
 
      13.C . ORDINANCE  -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, Utah, Repealing and 
            Replacing Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Section 2.10 regarding Power and 
            Duties of Mayor.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 2:26 :31. 
 
Councilmembers Rich Wood and Brett Wright presented a proposed ordinance intended to 
restore executive powers to the six - member Council in accordance with State Code §§ 10 -
3b - 303(1)(a)(ii) and 10 - 3b - 303(1)(b)(i)(A). The ordinance would also clarify mayoral  duties, 
establish a shared schedule with the Council, and address mayoral compensation. The item 
was placed on the agenda at the request of Councilmembers Wood and Wright.  
 

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page7  of 11 
 
City Attorney Marcus Draper provided legal clarification on the proposed changes, including 
the Mayor’s current responsibilities and ability to vote on the item. Councilmembers Wood 
and Wright explained the background, purpose, and intent of the ordinance,  emphasizing 
concerns with existing code and the importance of discussion and consensus - building.  
 
Mayor Gray expressed support for a path forward promoting unity and effective 
governance. Councilmembers offered comments and suggestions regarding the Mayor’s 
powers and duties and indicated interest in continued discussion to improve City processes. 
City  Manager Ben Reeves voiced concerns about the proposed amendments and 
expressed a desire to work collaboratively with the Council to maintain a productive working 
relationship.  
 
MOTION:           Councilmember  Clark  moved to table  item 13.C. and reopen Public 
                  Comment  Councilmember  Whiting  seconded the motion.  
 
Councilmembers clarified that the motion should specify that the item be tabled until later 
in the meeting.  
 
AMENDED   MOTION:  Councilmember Clark  moved  to table  item 13.C. until later in the meeting 
                  to come back  after public comment.  Councilmember Whiting  seconded 
                  the motion.  
                        Melissa Clark         Yes           
                        Craig Whiting         Yes           
                        Rich Wood             Yes           
                        Brett Wright          Yes           
                        Zachory Huish         Yes           
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote . 
 
Mayor Gray reopened the Public Comment period at 8:28 PM  
 
The following individuals spoke during the Public Comment Period:  
  
   •  Maryann Kline , read by Interim City Recorder, Lacie Messerly  -  Requested that City 
      Council take additional time before making a decision.  
   •  Sandy White , read by Interim City Recorder, Lacie Messerly -  Expressed concern 
      with changing the Mayor’s responsibilities so soon after an election.   
   •  Charlotte Ducos -  Stated that the proposed code is not ready for passage and 
      raised concerns with changes to the powers and duties of the Mayor.  
   •  Jeff Ruth -  Requested that the item be tabled and considered at a later date.  
   •  Laura Whitney -  Requested that the City Council take additional time before making 
      a decision.  


 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page8  of 11 
 
   •  Adam Bradley -  Opposed the manner in which the item was brought forward and 
      requested a public hearing prior to any decision.  
   •  Bryan Free -  Requested the item be tabled and suggested a more detailed 
      presentation showing the proposed changes.  
   •  Gary Fewkes -  Spoke regarding public comments on social media and emphasized 
      that proper time should be taken before making a decision.   
   •  Mackenzie Spaulding -  Commented on proposed code changes relating to fiduciary 
      duty and City employees  
   •  Amanda Mendenhall  -  Shared suggestions for updating the current code  
   •  Erica Duglas -  Requested that sufficient time be taken before passing the item to 
      allow for careful review.  
   •  Melanie Castillo -  Expressed concerns raised by other citizens regarding the 
      potential removal of duties from the Mayor and suggested that if duties are 
      removed from the mayor we might as well have a part time mayor.  
       
Mayor Gray closed the public comment period at 8:53 PM  and returned to item 13.C . 
 
Councilmember Wood    provided a general response   to citizens regarding the public  
comments  received . 
 
MOTION:           Councilmember  Clark  moved to  table item 13.C.  an Ordinance of Eagle 
                  Mountain City, Utah, Repealing and Replacing Eagle Mountain Municipal 
                  Code Section 2.10 regarding Power and Duties of Mayor            . 
                  Councilmember Wright seconded the motion.   
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
                           Jared Gray       No         
The motion passed  with a 5:1 vote . 
 
The recording of the motion  can be found online here at 0 3:37:41. 
 
      13.D. ORDINANCE   -  An Ordinance of Eagle Mountain City, Utah, Repealing and 
            Replacing Various Provisions of Title 2 of the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code 
            Related to City Governance.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 3:38 :47. 
 
MOTION:           Councilmember  Wood  moved to table  item 13.D. an Ordinance of Eagle 
                  Mountain City, Utah, Repealing and Replacing Various Provisions of Title 

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                       Page9  of 11 
 
                  2 of the Eagle Mountain Municipal Code Related to City Governance . 
                  Councilmember  Wright  seconded the motion.  
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
                           Jared Gray       Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote . 
 
The recording of the motion  can be found online here at 0 3:39 :12. 
 
14. CITY MANAGER ITEMS   
 
      14.A. DISCUSSION  -  Community Enhancement Board  -  Ben Reeves, City Manager  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 3:39 :55 . 
 
City Manager Ben Reeves provided suggestions regarding City boards and committees and 
requested direction from the City Council on how they would like to proceed with the  
current boards and committees , including the potential  creation of a RAP Tax board.  
 
15. LEGISLATIVE ITEMS  
 
      15.A. UPDATE  – Legislative Priorities List  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 3:46 :50 . 
 
Director of Legislative and Strategic Services Evan Berrett provided a brief legislative 
update, including the distribution of one - page summaries to state senators and 
representatives, and requested Councilmembers share any additional items for legislative  
consideration.  
 
The City Council discussed the importance of member attendance at upcoming meetings 
and identified which members would attend.  
 
Management and Policy Analyst John Magness noted he would meet with Councilmembers 
to provide ongoing updates to support informed decision - making.  
 
 
 
 

 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                      Page10  of 11 
 
16. CITY COUNCIL/MAYOR’S BUSINESS AND LIAISON REPORTS        
 
Mayor Gray  and the City Council members  offered comments and reports on committees to 
which they are assigned as liaisons.  
 
The recording of the discussion can be found online here at 0 4:04:49 . 
 
17. COMMUNICATION ITEMS     
 
18. ADJOURNMENT    
 
MOTION:        Councilmember   Clark  moved to adjourn the meeting at     9:36  PM. 
               Councilmember  Huish  seconded the motion.   
                           Melissa Clark    Yes        
                           Craig Whiting    Yes        
                           Rich Wood        Yes        
                           Brett Wright     Yes        
                           Zachory Huish    Yes        
The motion passed with a unanimous  vote.  
 
The recording of the motion  can be found online here at 0 4:12:52 . 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 9:36  PM. 
 
Approved by the City Council on February 3 , 202 6. 
 
 
____________________________________ 
Lacie Messerly  
City Recorder  
 
 


 
Eagle Mountain City CouncilMinutes  – January 20, 2025                      Page11  of 11 
 